docs: Proposal for FederatedCatalog Distribution and TargetNodeDirectory (#1555)
eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc: docs/development/decision-records/2024-09-16-proposal-federated-catalog-distribution/README.md

# Proposal for FederatedCatalog with Tractus-X distribution

## Decision

> The proposed solution is to have a Federated Catalog as own runnable service capable of crawling all the chosen catalogs and expose that data.

Reviewer: this should be an unequivocal decision, not a proposal. It is a "decision record", not a "proposal record". words matter.
Also, what is a "runnable service"? We should be very explicit here, for example, in saying: "The Federated Catalog will be deployed as standalone [component](https://github.com/eclipse-edc/eclipse-edc.github.io/tree/main/developer/decision-records/2024-08-06-components). For this, the Helm charts will be updated to feature a new deployment unit called 'federated-catalog'".

## Rationale

> The Federated Catalog aims at providing the aggregation of catalogs from multiple participants in a centralized point to reduce latency.

Reviewer: this is not needed. No need to motivate the existence of the FC, only the decision to deploy it as standalone component.
It also makes sense here to highlight some of the disadvantages (increased complexity, more remote calls,...) and why they are still justified (scalability, etc.).

Author: Removed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/48b1900fa819dbf0ec0f2652fc4fc07ef5cd8525).

Choosing a solution that decouples it from the Control Plane (like the one used for the Data Plane) and able to be scalable will future-proof the Federated Catalog as a feature and embraces wider usage.

## Approach

> The Federated Catalog running as own instance can be performed either by running respective Docker image in a container or directly running a generated `jar`. 

Reviewer: no theoretical concepts needed. Please only highlight how it is going to be deployed in the Tractus-X EDC helm charts, i.e. as separate `deployment` template. Doing this will bring some increased complexity, for example we need an additional Kubernetes ingress definition, as opposed to: just an additional `path` in an existing ingress.

Here it would also be advisable to mention, that there is going to be an additional runtime (i.e. docker image), analogous to `edc-controlplane-XYZ` and `edc-dataplane-XYZ` and to list the required variants (in-mem, postgres persistence).

Author: I see, changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/48b1900fa819dbf0ec0f2652fc4fc07ef5cd8525).

> In case of aiming at testing locally, the [Readme.md](https://github.com/eclipse-edc/FederatedCatalog/blob/main/README.md) includes a very helpful guide. 

Regarding deployment, the Tractus-Connector Helm charts will be updated to include this service.  

Relevant to highlight a potential challenge of the proposed approach.

> - Having its own instance (that itself contains a cache) may use considerable computing resources (related with storage cost).

Reviewer: > use considerable computing resources (related with storage cost).

how so? what cost do you anticipate, that wouldn't also be there if the FC ran embedded in the ControlPlane?

Author: You're right. The idea was comparing a specific runtime vs embedded in control plane could incur on having more resources used, but should be a minimal difference and I do not have comparing numbers. 
Regarding cost, is a non issue, since same data would be store regardless of solution.
Removed [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/48b1900fa819dbf0ec0f2652fc4fc07ef5cd8525).

# Proposal for FederatedCatalog with Tractus-X distribution

## Decision

> The **proposed solution is to have a Federated Catalog as own runnable service** capable of crawling all the wanted catalogs and expose that data.

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

## Rationale

The Federated Catalog aims at providing the aggregation of catalogs from multiple participants in a centralized point to reduce latency.

> Choosing a solution that decouples from Control Plane (like the one used for the Data Plane) and able to be scalable will future-proof the Federated Catalog as a feature and embraces wider usage. 

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

> Like so, having a Federated Catalog service, scalable on its own based on user needs, and not on Control Plane, allows the best resource management in the long term. It also enables adding features to the Federated Catalog without the need to change the Control Plane logic (assuming no API usage change).

Author: This was bad phrasing on my side, I was aiming at mentioned the goal of having independent updates. However, in the previous paragraph was already mentioned the decoupling this approach promotes so it (like the scalability) can be seen as repetitive information.
Removed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

> Like so, having a Federated Catalog service, scalable on its own based on user needs, and not on Control Plane, allows the best resource management in the long term. It also enables adding features to the Federated Catalog without the need to change the Control Plane logic (assuming no API usage change).

Reviewer 2: in any case also the "indipendent updates" is not something we want to achieve with this decision, because we will release the FC together with CP and DP, otherwise we would put it in a separate chart.

> Like so, having a Federated Catalog service, scalable on its own based on user needs, and not on Control Plane, allows the best resource management in the long term. It also enables adding features to the Federated Catalog without the need to change the Control Plane logic (assuming no API usage change).

Author: I see. I wanted to highlight, as an example, that if a change in the Federated Catalog Cache or similar should be transparent for other instances (like CP or DP). And it would be, I believe, but updating to a new version when all are in tractus-edc charts then "independent update" is not accurate.
Thanks!

> Additionally, the Federated Catalog deployment flow can be very similar to EDC components, ensuring the consistency and no need for additional know-how to handle the CI.

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

> Overall, aiming at independent upgrades and instance scalability, the decision above is more suitable when compared with the Federated Catalog embedded and shipped as any other extension in the ControlPlane.

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

## Approach

The Federated Catalog running as own instance can be performed either by running respective Docker image in a container or running a generated `jar`. Both approaches should be very straightforward 

> > In case of aiming at testing locally, the [Readme.md](https://github.com/eclipse-edc/FederatedCatalog/blob/main/README.md) includes a very helpful guide for both approaches mentioned. 

Author: The idea was to show the possibility of running a docker image (running the jar underneath) and the option of the user running the jar with needed vars without docker. Both cases, as expected, would be the same jar running. That said, you are right, need to change to a something more correct.

> As Tractus-X EDC project I guess this will result in publishing the federated catalog image and adding it to the Helm Charts

yes, this is the goal here, similar to other existing examples. Will not add here since what you commented here should already cover this idea.

Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

> Regarding infrastructure concerns, this service deployment approach can be very similar to the Data Plane, like a creation of a `deployment-federatedcatalog.yaml` very similar [to this one](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/a263bf71a110245657131509d4b37d058a1d220d/charts/tractusx-connector-azure-vault/templates/deployment-dataplane.yaml#L47). Considering hosting and other user infrastructure requirements, once again, the Data Plane can be used as a baseline comparison.  

Reviewer 2: too technical, this can be summarized as "it will be added to the tractusx-connector helm charts"

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

Relevant to highlight some potential challenges of the proposed approach. 
- The Network Latency expected may be a concern, but not more than any other downstream dependencies of the service;
- Having its own instance (that itself contains a cache) may use considerable computing resources (related with storage cost).

> Finally, and also working as a reminder, to enable this flow in any usage, it must be enabled. [See this table](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/75bdacbad43e2cad352204ea28a359c6aac7adea/docs/development/management-domains/README.md#enable-and-configure-the-crawler-subsystem) for additional information.

Reviewer 2: Please rephrase

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/a452459467e7d78d60ce263a2fecf6ea2c14c205).

> For its TargetNodeDirectory, the user is able to obtain the Connectors' URL's through the Discovery Service and store them in the new extension through its API. The API will allow to save a list of BPNLs (and Connectors' URL's if desired) and the `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension` is responsible to retrieve the data and store it (in memory or in a database). The URL's can later be retrieved and crawled by the Federated Catalog.

Reviewer 2: coul you please explain more here? e.g. showing how the API will be structured, which endpoint will be exposed.
Plus, how will it work by default, if no BPN is provided will it fetch all the available participants or not at all?

Author: Good point, thank you, changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b851b927095cda2442fe8cb15981c1f49ea98cec).

Reviewer 2: It would be also good to describe the api that permits to "save a list of BPNLs", and, if eventually there are other accessory methods (get, delete, ...)

Author: Yeah, I understand. Added in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b4b00b005dcbc5943738eeb04f4dfd9ec40722aa).

Reviewer 3: Again, we should be operating on DIDs

> This solution improves on the default one of having the data in a static file since a dynamic approach would avoid downtime when a change is required.

Reviewer 2: this sentence belongs to the `rationale` section

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b851b927095cda2442fe8cb15981c1f49ea98cec).

# Proposal for FederatedCatalog with Tractus-X distribution and its TargetNodeDirectory

## Decision

> Federated Catalog will be deployable as a standalone component capable of crawling all the chosen catalogs and expose that data. The Tractus-Connector Helm charts will be updated to feature a new Federated Catalog deployment template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Federated Catalog will be deployed as a standalone component. The Tractus-X EDC Connector Helm charts will be updated to feature a new Federated Catalog deployment template.
```

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b3c8ce28f715b6ee77b4260101327953b3c1696e).

> Regarding the TargetNodeDirectory, a new extension in the FederatedCatalog will have a db/cache containing the BPNL's and Connectors' URL's of each partner a member wants the offers from.

Reviewer: That is spurious. Instead, please outline how the TND is supposed to get populated and where the target node data is sourced from.

```suggestion
Regarding the `TargetNodeDirectory`, a new extension in the FederatedCatalog will have a db/cache containing the BPNL's and Connectors' URLs of each partner a member wants the offers from.
```

Author: updated in [here].(https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b082df185f85ccd0aa5d1c64fa19514becee57ea)

## Rationale

> Considering the Federated Catalog distribution, choosing a solution that decouples it from the Control Plane (like the one used for the Data Plane) and able to be scalable will future-proof the Federated Catalog as a feature and embraces wider usage.
> Having a specific runtime incurs on additional overhead (new Helm Chart, as example) and results in additional configuration complexity. Also, periodical crawling results in increased remote calls over time. However, being decoupled from the Control Plane, this solution permits the Federated Catalog to scale independently (based on own demand).

Reviewer: Please be more succinct, e.g.
```suggestion
While a standalone component (= K8S deployment) brings a slight increase in configuration complexity, its ability to be managed and scaled independently makes up for that. 
```

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b3c8ce28f715b6ee77b4260101327953b3c1696e).

For TargetNodeDirectory it will be set by a new extension responsible for exposing an API, where a member can input the BPNL's of the participants from which the catalogs are wanted, and then it will retrieve and store the respective Connector URL's. This new extension would get the data from the Discovery Service, provided a BPNL, and will be named `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension`. This solution allows the member to choose precisely the Target Catalog Nodes that interests them, resulting in reduced network calls and latency.
Additionally, if a Connector URL is registered (or unregistered) in the Discovery Service, the retriever will reflect it since it requests based on BPNL (which should not change) and the registered URL's will be returned.

> This solution improves on the default one of having the data in a static file since a dynamic approach would avoid downtime when a change is required.

Reviewer: This should go in the `Approach` section, as it outlines technical implementation. 
It is enough to say something to the effect of "target node data is sourced directly from the BPNL Directory service (or whatever it's called) since that already exists in Tractus-X and provides comprehensive participant data." It might also be worth mentioning, that there currently is no way for participants _not to be listed_ in that TND.

Apart from that, there is no need to explain the TND's functionality here. Rather, in the "Approach" section, please detail where the TND gets its data, if and how it's cached + what cache eviction strategy will be used, how new (or deleted) entries are detected etc.

Reviewer 3: Why are we using BPNs when we are planning to move away from those at the protocol layer? We should be entering the DIDs. This means we need to define an easy way for people to find the DID, which can be done using the BDRS client.

Author: Thank you, I understand it and updated the documentation to include DID input, having the BDRS resolve of those DID and call the Discovery Service to obtain the Connector URL's. 
This is aligned to what was discussed in a weekly meeting and is updated [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/4b75211ca9ffac01da973e2f29f110cb18fc3e76).

Other solution for the TargetNodeDirectory was also considered
- File in a S3 bucket (or different cloud provider's solution)
  - This solution was discarded due to one file for all instead of each partner having the data that respectively needs does not match the requirement and this solution would lock the usage of a proprietary tool (cloud provider) being harder to sustain in the long run.

## Approach

> Since the Federated Catalog will be a standalone runtime, the Tractus-Connector Helm charts will be updated to include the Federated Catalog as a separated deployment. The update will include the creation of a specific `deployment-federatedcatalog.yaml`, similar [to this one](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/a263bf71a110245657131509d4b37d058a1d220d/charts/tractusx-connector-azure-vault/templates/deployment-dataplane.yaml#L47) (for `ingress` and `hpa` as well), for different scenarios (InMemory, PostreSQL, etc.). This results in added configuration complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the Federated Catalog will be a standalone runtime, the Tractus-X EDC Connector Helm charts will be updated to include the Federated Catalog as a separated deployment. The update will include the creation of a specific `deployment-federatedcatalog.yaml`, similar [to this one](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/a263bf71a110245657131509d4b37d058a1d220d/charts/tractusx-connector-azure-vault/templates/deployment-dataplane.yaml#L47) (for `ingress` and `hpa` as well), for different scenarios (InMemory, PostreSQL, etc.). This results in added configuration complexity.
```

Author: Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b3c8ce28f715b6ee77b4260101327953b3c1696e).

To enable the Federated Catalog flow, please [see this table](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/75bdacbad43e2cad352204ea28a359c6aac7adea/docs/development/management-domains/README.md#enable-and-configure-the-crawler-subsystem).

> For its TargetNodeDirectory, the user is able to obtain the Connectors' URL's through the Discovery Service and store them in the new extension through its API. The API will allow to save a list of BPNLs (and Connectors' URL's if desired) and the `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension` is responsible to retrieve the data and store it (in memory or in a database). The URL's can later be retrieved and crawled by the Federated Catalog.

Reviewer: who's exposing the API? The DS? the extension?

Author: The extension. Added in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b3c8ce28f715b6ee77b4260101327953b3c1696e).

The retrieval of Connector URL's through the Discovery Service is enabled by the endpoint:
```
POST: /api/administration/connectors/discovery
```
In which, the body of the request can contain the BPNL's related with participants from which the catalogs want to be obtained. If no BPNL is provided (empty list) then all Connector URL's will be returned by the Discovery Service.
Information regarding the related API can be found [here](https://catenax-ev.github.io/docs/standards/CX-0001-EDCDiscoveryAPI#22-api-specification).

Some limitations of this TargetNodeDirectory solution are:

> - Each partner must have the BPNLs beforehand. If a new Partner registers and an existing partner would want their catalog, the BPNL (or Connector URL's) of the new partner must be obtained first;

Reviewer: how so? if a new participant registers, their BPN is added to the Discovery Service and the connectors' TND would pick that up.

Reviewer 3: This makes no sense to crawl all catalogs and is potentially harmful as it is the default. A wildcard should need to be explicitly configured for this.

Author: So if no participants are set (to obtain their catalogs) instead of having all catalogs whitelisted (i.e. retrieving many) the solution is to "blacklist" them. I mean to only obtain catalogs if they are explicitly defined and if none is, no crawling should happen. Correct?

Author: Will update the doc to include that.

- Deal with the overhead an additional persistence store;

> - The usage of the Discovery Service requires a technical user account to access it (must be requested).

Reviewer: Very good point. Any idea on how to handle that? Are the technical user creds stored in a vault, are they config properties,...?

Reviewer 3: This is one of the reasons why the Discovery Service needs to be retired. If we have to use it for the time being, the code needs to be externalized from the core TX FCC codebase. We need to discuss this.

Author: Considered a vault usage since believe it to be safer. Will include in the documentation.

As indicated, the new service would have own API capable of:

#### Save BPNL's
Request body would contain a list of BPNL's, allowing to store in bulk.
```

> [POST] /api/target-nodes

Reviewer: what API is this? If it is the connector extension's API, then please explain why it is necessary. The extension's job is to autonomically query the DS, so why does it need an API?

Author: > If it is the connector extension's API, then please explain why it is necessary

yes, it is. the need here is to allow the user to use the extensions new API to indicate which participants catalogs they may require (or not). The extension will only query the DS for the Participants data that are indicated through this API.
Updated the documentation to try to be more explicit [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b3c8ce28f715b6ee77b4260101327953b3c1696e).

```
Request Body Example
```json
[ "BPNL000000000001","BPNL000000000002" ]
```

#### Remove a stored BPNL
BPNL to be remvoed is sent as a path param.
```
[DELETE] /api/target-nodes/{bpnl}
```
#### Retrieve BPNL's
Get BPNL's (value and connectors associated with it).
```
[POST] /api/target-nodes/request
```
Request Body Example
```json
[ "BPNL000000000001","BPNL000000000002" ]
```
Response Example
```json
[
    {
        "bpn": "BPNL000000000001",
        "connectorEndpoint": [
            "https://connector1/api/v1/dsp"
        ]
    },
    {
        "bpn": "BPNL000000000002",
        "connectorEndpoint": [

>             "https://connector2/api/v1/dsp",

Reviewer: what does this mean? I know that connectors have multiple URLs in the DiscoveryService (which to me is a design flaw), but what does this mean for the TND? will there be multiple entries per BPN? If so, what does this mean for using the BPN as primary key? Will we need update the data model for the TargetNode?

Author: This is a very good point. 
Yes, the aim to have the BPNL as the pk will require the TargetNode targetUrl prop to be a list instead. Or consider a different pk and allowing the BPNL to not be unique. 
I would prefer to have the BPNL as pk and change the TargetNode.

Reviewer: i would caution against using the BPN as primary key. Moving away from BPNs and toward DIDs fully is currently being discussed and this would cause problems with the data model later on. In addition, conflating business keys (such as BPNs) and database keys is somewhat of an antipattern.
There always is the possibility to wrap the `TargetNode` in another class and use that class as database entity.

Author: This is a good point, thank you.
For the time being the BPN will still be used despite the expected change in the future for the DID usage only. So storing BPN would still be ideal, I think, but maybe not as a db id.
Using a wrapper around the TargetNode is great, the only concern to me is to what would be the db key then. Not using the BPN and using the DID but still having the BPN in the wrapper class?

Reviewer: database IDs should be synthetic, UUIDs usually are good for this. Just so you're aware, the `TargetNode.id` is used as `counterPartyId` in the `CatalogRequestMessage` later. That means, so long as we still use BPNs, `TargetNode.id` must contain the BPN.

## Rationale

While a standalone component (= K8S deployment) brings a slight increase in configuration complexity, its ability to be managed and scaled independently makes up for that.

For TargetNodeDirectory it will be set by a new extension responsible for exposing an API, where a member can input the DID's of the participants from which the catalogs are wanted, and then it will retrieve and store the respective Connector URL's. This new extension would get the data from the Discovery Service, and will be named `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension`. This solution allows the member to choose precisely the Target Catalog Nodes that interests them, resulting in reduced network calls and latency.
Additionally, if a Connector URL is registered (or unregistered) in the Discovery Service, the retriever will reflect it since it requests based on BPN and the registered URL's will be returned.

This solution improves on the default one of having the data in a static file since a dynamic approach would avoid downtime when a change is required.

Other solution for the TargetNodeDirectory was also considered
- File in a S3 bucket (or different cloud provider's solution)

>   - This solution was discarded due to one file for all instead of each partner having the data that respectively needs does not match the requirement and this solution would lock the usage of a proprietary tool (cloud provider) being harder to sustain in the long run.

Reviewer: this is more of a solution proposal and thus should be moved to the `"Approach"` section if not already there.

Author: I thought that, despite being a suggestion of a solution to be followed and one not be followed this would make sense as a Rationale. But followed that suggestion and transplanted it to the "Approach" section.
Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/8a3f859f388cbff83e476f248a1952eb8a32ee9e).

## Approach

Since the Federated Catalog will be a standalone runtime, the Tractus-X EDC Connector Helm charts will be updated to include the Federated Catalog as a separated deployment. The update will include the creation of a specific `deployment-federatedcatalog.yaml`, similar [to this one](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/a263bf71a110245657131509d4b37d058a1d220d/charts/tractusx-connector-azure-vault/templates/deployment-dataplane.yaml#L47) (for `ingress` and `hpa` as well), for different scenarios (InMemory, PostreSQL, etc.). This results in added configuration complexity.

> To enable the Federated Catalog flow, please [see this table](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/75bdacbad43e2cad352204ea28a359c6aac7adea/docs/development/management-domains/README.md#enable-and-configure-the-crawler-subsystem).

Reviewer: spurious. how we configure an FCC is not relevant for this Decision Record.

For its TargetNodeDirectory, the extension is able to obtain the Connectors' URL's through the Discovery Service and store them. Two API's will be provided in this new extension, at least during alpha stage, one to allow the user to input a list of DID's and other for BPN's. The `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension` is responsible to retrieve the data and store it (in memory or in a database). The URL's can later be retrieved and crawled by the Federated Catalog.

> If no DID is saved (to be crawled) then the extension will not request data from the Discovery Service, since the number of catalogs in the space can be significant.

Reviewer: We don't need to specific what _doesn't_ happen :)
I'd rephrase this to something like: "By default, the list of TargetNodes is empty..."

Author: this was left to abide to an ask on what default expected behaviour if no DID is stored. But I see your point. Kept it, but following your "by default" suggestion. 
Changed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/8a3f859f388cbff83e476f248a1952eb8a32ee9e).

The retrieval of Connector URL's through the Discovery Service is enabled by the endpoint:
```
POST: /api/administration/connectors/discovery
```
In which, the body of the request can contain the BPN's related with participants from which the catalogs want to be obtained. Although the DiscoveryService allows to perform a request without providing BPN's (empty list) it will not be done by the extension.
Information regarding the related API can be found [here](https://catenax-ev.github.io/docs/standards/CX-0001-EDCDiscoveryAPI#22-api-specification).

Some limitations of this TargetNodeDirectory solution are:
- Each partner must have the DID's beforehand. If a new Partner is registered and an existing partner would want their catalog, the DID (or BPN) of the new partner must be obtained first and added through the new extension API;

> - Deal with the overhead an additional persistence store;

Reviewer: what does this mean? how is this a limitation? If anything, it means that we'll need an in-memory and an SQL variant of this store.

Author: You're right, this will be a limitation if a SQL store is used, but InMem or SQL options are provided as other cases and this is not a valid limitation here.
Removed in [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/8a3f859f388cbff83e476f248a1952eb8a32ee9e).

To enable the Federated Catalog flow, please [see this table](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/blob/75bdacbad43e2cad352204ea28a359c6aac7adea/docs/development/management-domains/README.md#enable-and-configure-the-crawler-subsystem).

For its TargetNodeDirectory, the user is able to obtain the Connectors' URL's through the Discovery Service and store them in the new extension through its API. The API will allow to save a list of BPNLs (and Connectors' URL's if desired) and the `DiscoveryServiceRetrieverExtension` is responsible to retrieve the data and store it (in memory or in a database). The URL's can later be retrieved and crawled by the Federated Catalog.

The retrieval of Connector URL's through the Discovery Service is enabled by the endpoint:
```

> POST: /api/administration/connectors/discovery

Reviewer 2: Is there any api spec document from the Discovery Service documentation that can be referenced here?

Author: I did not find much, been using a int environment swagger to test it, however regarding DS guideline usage it can be found https://catenax-ev.github.io/docs/standards/CX-0001-EDCDiscoveryAPI#22-api-specification. Added in the PR [here](https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/tractusx-edc/pull/1555/commits/b4b00b005dcbc5943738eeb04f4dfd9ec40722aa).

Reviewer 3: We need to discuss this. The Discovery Service will likely be retired in 2025. We may need to use it as a temporary solution, but then this API should remain alpha until then.

Author: We were not aware of the 2025 timeline for the DiscoveryService. We had a proposal that would not enforce the DS querying in this extension by having the member responsible to obtain the Participant data, but since that would create more manual work, the proposal was then to query the DS (since we had no idea of it ceasing to be used).
